## Oxford wins BUCA

### Monday 24th February - by Joris Gerlagh
### Oxford dominated the British Universities Chess Association Championship, winning all of their matches.

[comment]: <> (If we want a photo in it should probably be put here?)

The BUCA Championship was played on 22nd - 23rd February, as a 5 round Swiss with the 10 strongest British universities. Oxford had sent 4 of their strongest players, Joris Gerlagh, Filip Mihov, Victor Vasiesiu and Akshaya Kalaiyalahan, in order to conquer a place at the European Championship and reclaim the title after a long drought. By average ECF ratings, Oxford was seeded 2nd, but all teams in the championship division were strong contenders.

The first round against Imperial proved a close matchup, with hard-fought draws on boards 1, 2 and 4 and Victor winning on board 3.

The second round we were matched against number 1 seeded Cambridge. This match was important both for the tournament as well as symbolically, as a taster for when we face Cambridge in the varsity match in 2 weeks time. After a quick draw on board 3 an oposite colour bishop endgame led to a draw on board 1. This left the fate in the hands of board 2, where Filip had just made an impressive exchange sacrifice, and board 4, where Akshaya had been winning from early on in the opening, but lacked time to rest easy. When both games were coverted into winsa celebratory mood started to creep in, as we had beaten the strongest team. The other teams couldn't keep us away from victory anymore, right?

The third round against Warwick, the only other team still on 100%, was won with wins on boards 2 and 3 and draws on 1 and 4, cementing our position on top.

On the Saturday night Filip was the only Oxford player to participate in the blitz tournament, finishing joint 6th on 6.5/9.

The next day we played the 4th round against LSE. A quick draw on board 1 was followed some time later by draws on board 2 and 4, although it felt like more had been possible. Victor then decided the match with a win on board 3.

We went into the 5th round against Bristol knowing even a 2-2 draw would suffice to win the Championship. Another quick draw on board 1 was followed by a win on board 2 and a draw on board 4, sealing our victory. Victor the won on board 3 to ensure a total domination of the Championship, as Oxford had won all their matches.

Thus, Oxford managed to win BUCA for the first time in 9 years, and were awarded with a place in the European Championship as well.

Congratulations especially to Victor, who got a gold medal for his performance of 4.5/5.

[Full results](http://www.4nclresults.co.uk/2019-20/media/buca/prog-div1.html)
